ABBY LEE MILLER (VOICEOVER):
Previously on "Dance Moms."
Line up, soldiers.
I don't think some of you want to be here,
and I certainly don't think
any of you work hard enough.
I can't believe you were tattle-telling
on a seven-year-old.
People know how my child dances.
Do you really think anyone who
goes to the dance competition
knows how your child dances?
ABBY LEE MILLER: Kendall,
you're chasing her.
Second place, entry number 74,
"Free the People."
Sometimes you have nothing intelligent
to say, you should just be quiet.
ABBY LEE MILLER: So today, you will
be voting on Maddie or Chloe.
Maddie wins.
ABBY LEE MILLER (VOICEOVER):
Coming up on "Dance Moms."
We're getting beat by teachers
that I've never even heard of before.
Here it comes.
Whoo.
But it's not funny
or cute to throw a kid on stage
and them not be warmed up.
I have been officially invited
to be on "The View."
[applause]
My foot doesn't hurt anymore.
And?
It's about this whole charade.
Don't let her rehearse.
- What charade?
- The charade about the foot.
What the [bleep] is wrong with the foot?
I want to know where the miracle
came from, because--
She rested.
Don't take it out on me that Abby
pulled your kid from a dance.
Why don't you call
the [bleep] doctor and ask him?
[MUSIC - NIKKO LOWE, "LIVING ON
THE DANCE FLOOR"]
Get up.
Get on the floor.
My world is with my girls
living on the dance floor.
[music continuing]
ABBY LEE MILLER: Let's go. Let's go.
Let's go.
Come on, girls. Get in here.
On the presidential campaign,
this means peace.
But here at Abby League Dance Company,
it means seconds.
Not only are we getting beat
by Kathy's brilliant team of imports,
we're getting beat by teachers
that I've never even heard of before.
We were the losers.
ALDC lost again, two weeks in a row.
How are we going to recover?
How are these dancers going to get better?
How do they improve in a week?
Put the effort forth.
You get out what you put in.
All right, I want to get to the pyramid.
First, I have Mackenzie.
You didn't dance.
Next, Paige.
That flag was a symbol
for everybody in that audience.
[music playing]
Don't do a disservice to this country.
Abby puts Paige at the bottom
of the pyramid
because she held the flag
upside down the wrong way.
That's why we didn't win because Paige
held the flag the wrong way.
And next, Kendall.
We've worked on your facial expressions.
They've improved.
We've worked on your stamina.
That's getting there.
Now focus.
Wherever your eyes go,
that's where the judges' eyes go.
You can't watch Maddie
like a member of the audience.
And next I have Brooke.
Brooke, during rehearsal,
you did an outstanding job.
Then we get on stage
and you go right by Asia and the flag
and then you have to wait four counts.
You have to think on stage.
Chloe.
Chloe, you did a solo.
You did a nice job.
You were second only to Maddie.
Corrections.
Hyperextending the elbows.
Not lengthening the back of the knee.
You can fix all of those things,
but you have to want to.
And next, Nia.
You did an outstanding job.
I thought you looked good in the group.
I noticed you in the group.
I also noticed that you were smart
and you figured out you couldn't
live Asia until she got there.
Finally Abby notices Nia.
She's making it to the middle
row of the pyramid.
That's a good thing.
And next.
Asia, you won the overall
high score in the petite division.
I think that you're a little firecracker,
and I think you step on stage
and you cause an explosion.
So Asia's number 2.
I'll take the 2 for this time, as long as
she doesn't drop lower than that.
And on top of the pyramid.
Maddie, you were the overall high scorer
of the junior division.
And in first place, entry number 30,
"I'm Trying."
- Yeah, Maddie.
- Whoo-hoo.
Your friends voted for you, too.
It was a good performance.
You are the type of personality
that this country was built on.
You all know that song
"America the Beautiful?"
Maddie, you are America the Beautiful.
You're welcome.
People have accused me
of playing favorites.
Maddie gets what she deserves.
She puts in the time.
She puts in the energy.
She wants it.
Why wouldn't she be the favorite?
Now, before I get started
on this week's assignments,
I want to ask Mackenzie
where your cast is.
You should have an air cast on that foot.
My foot doesn't hurt anymore.
And?
What's your doctor's excuse?
Did you go to the doctor again?
No.
I mean, yeah.
No, you did not, Kenz.
You didn't go back to the doctor.
Tell her exactly what the doctor told you.
He said that it's OK to dance.
And how did he look at your foot again?
He didn't.
So over the phone?
He said that she has to
rest it until it feels 100%.
She knows her own body.
She knows her own body?
She can't even create
a sentence to answer me with.
I'm sorry.
The doctor said two weeks
and I don't feel comfortable
going against his wishes.
It has not been two weeks.
I don't want Mackenzie dancing
because she's eight years old.
She's little.
Those tiny, little bones
in her feet are fragile.
And Mackenzie has the potential
to go the distance in her dance career.
I don't want to do something
now that's going to prevent her
from having a career
further down the line.
Let's talk about this week.
We are headed to Energy Dance Competition
in Youngstown, Ohio.
I'm sure that Kathy is going to be there.
I'm sure her boy group
will be back in full force.
But I'm really not too
concerned with Kathy.
I'm worried about the other
studios in Youngstown, Ohio.
The group number is entitled
to "Hear No Evil."
Everyone is in it,
except Mackenzie and Maddie.
Maddie, you will not be dancing with
the group in the group routine.
You will be assisting me
with the choreography.
I don't think the rest of the
group is as serious as Maddie.
They just say, well, Maddie
will figure out the counts.
Maddie will know the music.
So I want to teach them a lesson.
They all need to be the leaders.
They all need to know what's going on.
Maddie, you will be doing a solo.
The name of your solo
is "They'll Never Change."
Asia, you will be performing
a duet with Nia.
[applause]
The name of your routine
is "Move You Too."
And Asia, I'm expecting
my little firecracker
to light Nia up.
We're going to get Nia moving faster,
jumping higher.
Nia, when Asia's leg is up here,
her leg better be up there.
You can't be any less
than Asia is on stage.
It's going to be hard
for anyone dancing with Asia
to match her energy,
but Nia can hold her own,
and she can definitely
bring it to the dance floor.
I think Nia will be just fine
dancing with Asia.
I have one more solo.
It's going to Chloe.
It's contemporary.
And the name of the routine
is "About Mother."
Moms, you are dismissed.
Ladies, spread apart.
I'm taking you out of that group
because I think they're dragging you down.
And if you had a bunch of people
to dance with that were
on your level that wanted it,
you would be first place all the time.
You have to worry about you, understood?
Maddie's solo is called
"They'll Never Change."
Who is she referring to in "they?"
I don't know.
Maybe the other girls in the group.
Maybe they're not going to change.
Maybe they're not going
to try to work harder.
Or maybe it's the other moms.
Maybe they'll never change
and they'll always
be jealous of Maddie.
I think if Abby thinks that Maddie
is so much more mature
then Maddie should move
up to the senior group.
That's exactly-- then what's she
doing dancing with these kids,
week after week after week
if they're holding her back.
KELLY: Exactly. Move her out of our group.
If Abby thinks that Maddie is too good
for this group, pull her.
Have her dance with your seniors.
We don't need her.
[music playing]
On your left.
8, 4, 5.
Maddie is demonstrating this week because
she's not such a second place performer.
She's a winner. She's a champion.
She's an artist.
She wants to do this 24/7.
It's totally unrealistic
and illogical to make it
so that Maddie is the only one that has
goals, aspirations, and everyone else--
And talent.
And talent and ambition.
The group routine is entitled
"Hear No Evil."
It's going to be a challenge
for the girls.
The music is difficult to count to.
So I'm going to pull their leader,
the one with the great musicality,
out of the group
and see how they handle it.
Every one of these girls
need to be the Maddie.
Melissa, are you comfortable with Maddie
being the assistant
choreographer of our group?
I heard her say she's
going to be assisting.
Yeah, don't be calling
her assistant choreographer.
What is the difference between
choreographing
and assistant choreographer?
What's the difference?
And it really doesn't
make a difference to me
if Abby pulls Maddie
out of the group dance.
I mean, Abby tells us every week
that Maddie is so much better
than our girls, so take
her out of the group then.
Asia.
But I have to say,
I know these girls have been dancing
together for a long time,
but I don't know.
Does she pick up choreography fast?
Right here in rehearsal, she might be--
Oh, I know what you're saying.
Yeah, but on stage, it comes together.
Asia isn't keeping up
well with this group.
They're a well-oiled machine.
Asia's new to the group.
She's several years
younger than most of them
and she's half their size.
It's not a good fit.
So what happens when
Kenzie's put in a group?
Is she behind the choreography
with the older girls
because she's small, or you're--
Not wrong, not off, not slower,
but the timing.
Speaking of Mackenzie, I have a question.
What changed with Mackenzie
that now she's 100% ready to go?
Because her foot feels better.
Either Mackenzie really
wasn't that hurt to begin with
or she's really still hurt now.
But one way or the other, you're lying.
This is what my- the doctor
said to me, Christi.
Kenzie can dance when she feels
100% confident in her foot.
She knows her body.
You have been going on and on and on
for weeks
that she can't dance,
she can dance, she can't dance.
But she rested for a whole week
doing literally nothing.
A week really isn't that long to rest.
Well, you know what?
Mackenzie feels better and she's fine.
[phone ringing]
Hello?
It's Teresa.
I got some really super,
exciting news for you.
[laughs]
That is crazy.
Oh my god. Oh my god.
I want to sit next to Whoopie.
I am so excited to be going to "The View."
But me sitting there next to them,
I'm a little bit nervous about that.
I am super stoked about my kids
performing on "The View."
Come on, that is amazing
advertisement for my studio.
I'm guest-hosting "The View."
[laughs]
She's wooing, whooping, and hollering.
[wooing]
She's distracted by a phone call.
I think Abby calls a 900 number,
I swear to God.
I need everybody in studio A.
Everybody, come on.
I have a big announcement to make.
I just got a phone call
and I have been officially
invited to be a guest host on "The View."
[cheering]
Oh, oh my god.
So I will be hosting
the entire hour of "The View."
I think Abby can hold her own,
but I am a little bit worried
about what's going
to come out of her mouth.
Of course, I am going to have the
Abby Lee Dance Company competition team,
one of our winning group routines
perform on "The View."
[applause]
Excited?
Yes.
I'm excited to go to New York.
This is a great opportunity
for the girls to be on "The View."
As far as the moms go,
if Abby doesn't want the moms to go,
I love to shop in New York.
So I'm excited.
So next week, we will be
traveling to New York City.
[applause]
Unfortunately, the lady from "The View"
said I need to submit
the routine that they're
going to be performing tonight.
So we need to do
something that is exciting
and something that lets people think.
You like that one?
That's beautiful.
I'm excited about co-hosting
"The View," but you know what?
There is no rest for the weary.
We still have a big competition
this weekend.
We need to perfect the group number
and get the solos ready.
All right, spread apart.
Let's go. Let's go. Let's go.
I want to know how long
this happiness will last for Abby.
That's big news, so that means
she'll ride that high for,
I don't know,
the rest of the night would be nice.
It's one thing being a guest,
but she's an actual host.
- I know.
- Come on. Let's go from the top, Maddie.
You got it?
[MUSIC - WE THE COMMITTEE, "THIS
WON'T END QUIETLY"]
You told me we were fighters, fighters.
Watch with the knuckles
when you push forward, Chloe.
The group can win without Maddie.
It should win without Maddie.
The problem is they rely on Maddie.
Girls, you need to step up to the plate.
You need to listen to the music.
And you're not.
You're letting Maddie do the work.
Kendall and Brooke obviously
were doing a different time
and they felt they were right,
and the other people were way ahead.
They kept going because they
thought they were right.
Maddie, who did you think was right?
All right, let's go again.
Maddie told me she's happy and sad
about assisting.
She said she loves doing it, but she's sad
because she wants to be in the dance,
and she doesn't want any of her
friends to get angry with her.
Melissa, do you think that Maddie
is uncomfortable with Abby leaving her
in charge of her friends?
Yeah. She said that she's happy
and sad at the same time.
Do you think Maddie misses
being in a group dance this week?
Absolutely.
Whatever Abby wants her to do,
you know she's going to listen to that.
Is Mackenzie frustrated after
the pyramid yesterday,
because Abby has been doing
absolutely nothing again this week,
and she feels like she can dance.
Melissa said that Mackenzie
had to be off of her foot,
doctor's orders, for two weeks.
And I don't think Melissa
really thought that Abby was going
to take her for her work,
and two weeks is two weeks.
I went round and round
with some of the numbers
and I think that we should do
"The Last Text" for "The View."
I think that it's an important piece,
and I think we have a message
to send out to all the viewers.
All I need you to do is a roundoff
back handspring
to that corner
and fall to the ground.
What number is this?
It's called "The Final Text?"
HOLLY: "The Last Text."
KRISTIE RAY: What is Asia doing?
Replacing Mackenzie, it looks like,
but she won't let Kenzie dance.
Mackenzie is not dancing right now
and we need to rehearse this routine,
so why wouldn't I put Asia in the number?
JILL: They don't-
She doesn't dance.
She does a roundoff back
handspring and done.
CHRISTI: Back handspring and done.
Oh my gosh, so do you think Abby
won't let her dance?
Well, maybe it's just for rehearsal.
We'll see.
I mean, I think Asia
could be a backup for Mackenzie,
but she's not a team member.
Mackenzie is a team member.
Well, Mackenzie is injured, right?
She was. You saw her crying.
OK, but she's better now.
I want to know where
the miracle came from because--
She rested.
- OK.
- Please.
It's really none of your concern.
She's not in the dance so be happy,
because that's what you want.
No, that's not true.
Absolutely it is.
Melissa made such a big deal
about Mackenzie can't dance.
She's crying in pain.
It hurts so bad.
Now all of a sudden the girls
are dancing on "The View"
and Mackenzie had a miraculous recovery.
It just doesn't jive.
- She's fine. Ask her yourself.
- How?
Why don't you call the
[bleep] doctor and ask him?
Don't take it out on me that Abby
pulled your kid from a dance,
because my kid and the rest of our kids
have been listening to Abby
talk about how wonderful
your children are
and your daughter is all week,
and we haven't told you to go F yourself.
Listen, this is for "The View."
Millions and millions of
people are watching that.
There will be no mistakes.
[music playing]
- KELLY: She's here.
- Hey.
Hi.
Hillary.
I'm Brooke.
Nice to meet you.
Oh, look, we got the keyboard all set up.
We're ready to go.
Brooke loves to sing, and I feel like this
is a great opportunity for the girls.
I mean, we're going to be on "The View,"
and I just feel like while I'm
out there in New York City,
I want to take advantage
of this and have Brooke go meet
with a music producer
and have her, you know,
see about doing another song.
So before we go, I want to have Brooke
meet with a vocal teacher
and have her have a lesson
so when we go to New York,
she is completely prepared.
I just keep telling her this,
being in dance,
she has a lot of opportunities
to get out there and sing.
Absolutely, 100%. Of course.
You already have an audience
to your dance.
Like you opened that door
for being a fantastic dancer,
and now you can branch out
and do other things as well.
The hardest part is being
a person who will work hard,
and you're a hard worker.
And so you apply that to your singing,
you're going to get stuff out of it.
How are you doing?
You have to go this weekend.
If I leave you at home
and you dance all weekend,
what if you get hurt again
and you're not good for New York City?
Then Asia's going to be doing "The View."
Like right now,
Asia is rehearsing your spot.
This is Mackenzie's number,
"The Last Text."
She deserves to be in the number.
You know, Asia just came up to me
and she goes, oh, I'm rehearsing
the group thing for "The View,"
but Kenzie had Maddie tell me
that I was out of it
because she's perfectly fine.
But wait, why would
Maddie go and tell her that?
That's not her job.
Well, that's what I told her.
I said, Asia, I said just wait.
I said it's Abby's decision,
not Melissa's.
- Yeah.
- This is her team.
It's not Asia's team.
I understand, but then let's compete.
If Mackenzie can't compete,
then she can't do "The View."
I know you want to dance.
- I want to dance.
- I know.
OK.
I don't think Mackenzie should
be taken out of the dance.
Mackenzie does a roundoff back handspring.
That's all she does,
so she needs to let Mackenzie dance.
Tell me, what did you learn from the whole
Maddie/Chloe thing?
Maddie, Maddie, Maddie.
Take that sadness
and put it into your dancing.
Well, the corrections that Maddie gave me,
I'm trying to really use them.
The whole voting thing,
it should have been five people
voting for you
and five people voting for Maddie.
Like they couldn't decide.
So you need to toughen up.
You need to get a thick skin,
because this business is ruthless.
Chloe wants to be a star, a celebrity.
She wants to sign autographs.
That is not making her a better dancer.
All of those things need to be
put on hold until her dancing
is to the level that it should be.
[music playing]
I'm actually really surprised
that Abby is giving Chloe
a solo again this week
after the whole voting
mishap in the dressing room.
I think what really hurt Chloe
more than anything was the fact
that her peers, whom she
respects, voted against her.
So I'm really glad that Chloe has a chance
to go out and redeem herself.
Do you know what this is about?
It's about all that we've
been through together.
It's about mother,
everything we've been through.
Let me tell you about my mama,
she's a bitch.
[laughter]
The dance teacher hates her.
That's true.
And her partner in crime.
I like that Chloe's solo this week
is called "About Mother."
You know, Abby always tries
to make it be a negative thing,
but I'm going to look at this as a tribute
to my relationship with Chloe,
not as a negative thing
about our relationship.
(SINGING) 1, 2, 1, 2, 3, and 4.
I've got something to tell you and--
Asia and Nia are doing a duet this weekend
entitled "Move You Too."
Asia has an over-the-top personality,
especially when she steps out on stage.
And the only other performer
that I think of is a drag queen.
They're just that over the top persona.
They're bigger than life,
and that's what I want Nia to be.
Oh, here, Abby's going to do her
drag queen walk.
She's revving up from head to toe.
Mama's in the house.
Oh, Lord.
Look, she's got her foot beveled.
Oh, the head's bopping.
Oh, god.
The torpedoes are out.
Abby loves herself a drag queen dance.
- Oh, Lord, help us all.
- Watch out.
Everybody get out your mental scrub brush.
OK, here she goes.
I hope she didn't do that for her date.
Oh, the wrists are limp.
Oh, gross.
Whatever that move is.
Here it comes.
[laughs]
Oh my god.
I think she thinks
she looks good doing that.
I don't think that looks good.
ABBY LEE MILLER: Come on.
Point those feet.
This is going to be a tough duet
for Nia this week.
Not only does she have to match
Asia's facial expressions and her energy,
there's an extremely difficult lift
in the middle of the dance.
Asia, although a small girl,
she's muscular and she's no lightweight.
Usually, it's Chloe and Maddie,
they compete against each other.
Asia and Kenzie, they're not competing
against each other.
They're competing against each other
for a spot on "The View,"
so yeah, they are competing
against each other.
I'm really torn who I think should dance
in the group dance on "The View."
I mean, it's not fair to the group
to have them practice with Asia
and then at the last second
throw in Mackenzie.
Is Mackenzie, is she feeling
resentful to Asia?
No.
Oh, and now Asia is a bully.
Is Asia being a bully?
No.
I want them to resolve this on their own.
OK, but I would like to know
how my child's being a bully.
She dropped a block on Mackenzie,
dropped a block on her foot on purpose.
I'm like, why would a kid
drop a block on her?
No, Asia told me that because
she knew that's how it would be relayed.
She said Kenzie was walking by.
When it dropped,
when she was picking it up,
it didn't drop on Kenzie's foot.
It hit the side of her foot.
I can say a lot of things about Asia.
I really don't think one of them
would be that she's a bully.
I just think Melissa
is trying to think of any excuse
to make Asia look bad.
My child will not pick up a block
and just throw it on someone's foot.
Well, I wouldn't think that.
Next.
Melissa's being passive aggressive
about the "bully" comment.
I don't know what she's doing,
but it makes no sense.
I'm not going to argue with stupid.
I got to ask you something.
Asia came up to me
and said the girls told her
she's out of the show on "The View"
instead of Abby telling her.
Abby said Mackenzie was on "The View."
OK, well, I wish there was not
this whole charade about her
rehearsing it and then now not in it.
Things change all the time, Kristie.
I think it's safe to say
that Kristie Ray has two sides.
She has the,
"I'm so perfect dance mom" side,
and then she has the,
"I'm a stage mom bitch."
It's not about Asia
not being in the group.
It's about this whole charade.
- Don't let her rehearse.
- What charade?
The charade about the foot.
What [bleep] is wrong with the foot?
There's nothing wrong with it now.
It's fine.
OK, then what's the charade?
Compete.
She want's to-
She was crying.
Get it X-rayed and a doctor's note,
with a real doctor's note,
with an X-ray with the written,
instead of bringing the note
and saying two weeks rest.
I mean, it gets kind of ridiculous.
[music playing]
JILL: We're here at the
Energy Dance Competition
in Youngstown, Ohio, and there are a lot
of amazing dancers here.
The skill level is set really,
really high,
so we have to be on our game.
We have to be focused.
And we have to win.
I cannot believe that we
are in Youngstown, Ohio,
and there's no applesauce.
[cheering]
Thank God Kathy is not coming.
This is the best news I've heard all week.
Whoa, whoa, Mackenzie.
What are you doing?
This is hard cement.
I need you to get a shoe on.
This is the end of two weeks.
Like the doctor originally said,
the doctor with the iPhone
that can see through the phone
to your foot and touch it and feel it.
Abby still hasn't decided
who will be dancing on "The View" yet,
whether it's Mackenzie or Asia,
but if Melissa wants Mackenzie to dance,
she would be wise to tell her
to sit down and stay off her foot.
Shoulders even.
The right arm's as high as the left.
When the girls are
rehearsing in the green room,
I think that Maddie
is watching Chloe dance.
And I think that Maddie knows that Chloe
is dancing extremely well today,
and I think she feels a little nervous
that Chloe might be real competition.
Nail that.
Use the pli.
Glide through fourth, up to relev.
Think about all those
things you're doing wrong.
Today, it's anybody's game.
Chloe can step out on stage and beat
Maddie any day, anytime, anywhere.
That's what this game is all about.
That's why it's called competition.
Where are Asia and Nia?
[cheering]
Oh my god.
I love that.
Shangela would be proud.
Can we see the drag walk now?
I'm really excited Nia and Asia
have this duet this week.
They look really great together.
But this is the first time
they had a duet,
and so I know they're going
to need to run it a few times
before they go on stage.
All right, let's go, let's go.
They're not going on.
The duo's not going on.
Not yet.
We've got to get moving.
- But we'll come back to the duet?
- Yes.
'Cause I didn't have a chance to get pins.
Like they're not finished getting dressed.
Maddie and Chloe's
solos are coming up next,
and we're all rushing
to try to get out of the room,
but we haven't run
Nia and Asia's duet yet,
and I'm getting really nervous.
[music continuing]
Before I go on stage for my solo,
I'm just a little, tiny bit nervous,
but I just want to go out there
and show to Miss Abby that I can do it.
ANNOUNCER: Our next entry
is entry number 27, Chloe,
performing to "About Mother."
[applause]
[MUSIC - CLAIRE HAYEK,
"WHAT ABOUT (MOTHER)"]
Mother, tell me, Mother.
How to silence my mind?
Show me, show me, Mother,
how to, follow the signs.
'Cause you see right through me
and you can heal my pain.
What about the air we breathe?
All the pain we feel?
What about you and me?
What about?
What about green and the blue,
all that we've been through?
What about you and me?
What about?
[cheering]
I think Chloe should be really proud
of herself
because I think it would
be so hard to hear just
negative things all the time
and go out there and rise
to the occasion and dance your heart out.
So I give her a lot of credit
for this dance today
because I think she looks amazing.
There's always pressure on Maddie.
I mean, there's pressure on all the kids.
But you know,
she wants to please Miss Abby.
ANNOUNCER: Ladies and gentlemen,
our next entry
is number 30, Maddie performing
to "They'll Never Change."
[cheering]
[MUSIC - TATIANA MOROZ,
"THEY'LL NEVER CHANGE"]
Another day, another way
to get thrown out of home.
But does it really matter
what we say
or who started it all?
No, they'll never change,
even if we want them to.
They'll never change.
I don't want to disappoint,
but really what's the point
when we're not
getting very much love at all.
I'm not getting very much love at all.
They'll never change.
I think Maddie's beautiful
on stage and it was flawless.
ANNOUNCER: All right,
our next entry is number 44,
"Move You Too."
All of a sudden I hear
the competition announce
that the duet is up next,
and there was supposed
to be 14 numbers between
Asia and Nia's duet and Maddie's solo.
Asia and Nia never had a chance
to rehearse a duet.
They didn't run the duet.
I think they ran it backstage.
No, they did not.
In this duet,
Nia has an extremely difficult lift
with Asia where she picks
her up over her head.
She hasn't even had a chance
to practice it.
They haven't even stretched.
They are totally unprepared.
The competition skipped ahead to the duet
and the girls are totally unprepared.
They are totally caught off guard,
and there's this extremely difficult lift
in the middle of the dance.
We didn't even warm up or anything.
We didn't practice at all,
and that's not fair to Asia and I.
ANNOUNCER: Our next entry
is number 44, "Move You Too."
[applause]
[music - lacy baby, "move ya"]
1, 2, 1, 2, 3, get funky.
I've got something to tell you
and I think ought to know.
It's time to get down to business.
Come on, ready, set, go.
'Cause we grinding.
No, not yet.
We putting out the show.
You think you know, but you
have no idea me and the band,
we about to make you feel
something so, so unreal.
We are the real deal.
Whoo.
Y'all ready to have some fun
and let everything else go?
Ha.
I like that. Me, too.
Now let me show you how we do it,
do it, do it.
[applause]
Way to go, girls.
The duet ended up looking pretty good.
Was it their best?
No, but Nia was able to lift Asia
with no difficulty,
so I'm pretty happy with that.
What I'm not happy with is with Abby.
She was reckless and she totally was
unprepared in rehearsing those girls
before they went on stage.
Holly and Christi
are really upset right now
because Abby was so busy having
them do their drag queen walks
that she forgot to have
them run the dance.
I think they did a nice job.
I think they could
have been better prepared.
- They weren't stretched.
They weren't stretched.
I could tell they weren't stretched.
Being in a costume does not mean
that you're ready to perform.
I agree.
There was time for the girls to rehearse
and she didn't use that time.
Hey, hey, hey, hey.
What?
Who told the girls to go on
if there were like 14 numbers?
What?
They never practiced in their costume
like everybody else.
They didn't even run anything.
They didn't even stretch.
Most importantly, they weren't warmed up.
Regardless, the ability
to adapt quickly to change,
that's- they need to be on that.
Because when your kid goes to an audition,
they could be number 185,
and 183 and 184 dropped out
and your kid's saying,
well, wait a minute.
I have six more minutes before I step out
there to do my audition.
No, you don't.
When you're in an audition,
you just need to be ready,
and that's a fact.
I was worried about the lift.
The lift was great.
They practiced the lift backstage.
What else did they do that required
all this warm up?
A roundoff back handspring.
Well, a back handspring,
since you know everything, Dr. Holly,
is done with a straight back.
But it's not funny
or cute to throw a kid on stage
and them not be warmed up.
Once again, Abby deflects the blame
and turns this all into a lesson
about being prepared.
Regardless, this lesson
could have been disastrous.
Abby is lucky the duet
performed as well as they did.
[music continuing]
ABBY LEE MILLER: One more time,
this is it.
Passion. Intensity.
The group dance is up next.
Abby's bold experiment of taking
Maddie out of the group number
and using her as an assistant is about
to play out in front of all of us.
I just hope that this
experiment doesn't blow up
in front of all of our faces.
Maddie is going to go backstage with you.
Listen to her.
All right, game faces on.
Let's go.
Maddie, if they don't do well,
I'm going to need a new assistant.
[music continuing]
It's going to be a challenge for the girls
to dance without Maddie.
This is a lesson.
This is to say, girls,
you need to be together.
You need to be on your A game,
and you're not.
[chatter]
How are we walking on?
I think Abby puts all
of her eggs in one basket
and she depends on Maddie.
And I think that this is their time
to go out and show Abby
that we can do this without Maddie.
We don't need her.
ANNOUNCER: All righty,
our last dance for the day
is entry number 57, "Hear No Evil."
[applause]
[MUSIC - WE THE COMMITTEE,
"THIS WON'T END QUIETLY"]
Fighter, fighter.
You told me we were fighters, fighters.
Let the night get away
to something better than here.
Let the night get away.
Fighter, fighter.
You told me we were fighters, fighters.
This won't end quietly.
This will be beautiful, my love.
[cheering]
I think I've accomplished my goal.
The girls learned
to survive without Maddie.
All right,
our Energy Junior Solos Division.
In third place, "Titanium."
There is one point
separating first and second.
In second place,
Chloe performing to "About Mother."
And our top overall
Energy Junior Solo is Maddie,
"Maybe They'll Change."
Now Chloe is second only by one point.
Maddie, Melissa, you better wake up.
Chloe has learned her lesson,
and she is hot on your trail.
We have our top
Overall Energy Petite Duet Trio.
In third place, "On Broadway."
In second place, "Follow the Leader."
And our top
Overall Energy Petite Duet Trio,
"Move You Too."
[applause]
I'm so proud of Nia.
The duet came in first place
and they didn't run the dance once.
They adapted to the situation
and they persevered,
and I hope this shows Abby
that Nia can tackle any situation
that comes her way.
Our Power Petite Small Group
top award goes to entry number 33,
"Runaway Babies."
Our Energy Junior Small
Group top overall winner
goes to "Hear No Evil."
I'm thrilled.
The girls learned not to rely on Maddie.
Now, if they can learn
not to rely on their mothers
and think for themselves,
I might have a whole new team
on my hands.
[cheering]
Congratulations.
Congratulations to everybody.
Everybody did well.
I think you got lucky.
I think it's hysterical
that the group dance got first place.
I just would like to rub it
into Abby's nose that, see,
our girls can dance without
Melissa's kids in it and still do well.
In the clothes that you're on right now,
I'd like you to run "The Last Text"
since we're doing it next week.
I want to see if I want
to make any changes.
We are going to New York City next week,
and we're going to be on
"The View" doing "The Last Text."
So I need these kids to run
that number at every opportunity.
I need to look at this routine,
and I need to look at it now.
Sickle feet.
You do that,
I will literally grab that hand
and drag you off the stage.
Is it clear that she's
going to be on "The View,"
or should I--
- You never know.
- Asia's been running the dance.
She's been rehearsing.
She knows the part.
So at this point, I think
Asia should be on "The View."
Does that mean Asia's doing
"The Last Text?"
Mackenzie's definitely bummed.
She wants to dance.
She wants to dance in the worst way.
We'll see.
ABBY LEE MILLER (VOICEOVER):
Next on "Dance Moms."
Here we are, New York City.
[inaudible]
Oh.
What do I have to do to
get Mackenzie to dance again?
I really think that she
needs to go on "The View."
We are holding an open audition
for a contemporary dancer.
I danced with Mariah Carey.
Wow.
Who's going to be in the dance?
I'm not sure yet.
I have to fight for my daughter.
Let it die.
This is my decision.